In a recent poll, over 6,000 people surveyed worldwide were asked to rank what they felt
were keys to happiness.
Now, interest was that only 16% believed that one's faith or religious beliefs had any
impact or bearing on their personal happiness.
Now, the words of today's text, as we know, are part of Jesus' sermon on the Mount.
And he begins this by letting us know what is needed in order to be truly happy.
But in his discussion, Jesus explained something quite different from that poll.
He explains that our happiness is directly connected to our faith and to our relationship
with God.
I invite you to turn with me in your Bibles.
We're going to consider portions of this account to Matthew chapter 5.
And let's begin with the reading of Matthew chapter 5 verse 3.
Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need since the kingdom of the heavens belongs
to them.
Notice the start.
Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need, or as the footnote says, or those who
are beggars for the Spirit.
A literal beggar is likely painfully aware of his need for physical food.
And isn't that exactly how you and I have to be conscious of our spiritual need?
You see, we have to beg Jehovah for his Holy Spirit.
And you notice this point is highlighted again.
If you look in verse 6, the thought of hungering and thirsting for divine guidance, begging to
be led in the right way to allow Jehovah Spirit to be operative upon us.
And in our lives.
And of course, we do this by taking advantage of spiritual provisions.
So reading and meditating on God's Word, having a regular study program.
And of course, constantly going to Jehovah in prayer.
When we do this, all of this shows that we are putting our complete dependence and reliance
upon Jehovah.
And of course, as we beg for Holy Spirit, and we work to apply the things that we learn
well, obviously now we're happy because it helps us to become better individuals.
And we're better able to display various aspects of the fruitage of the Spirit.
And this becomes evident in our dealings with others.
Jesus mentioned some of these qualities in His sermon.
For example, you look in verse 5, we develop the quality of mildness.
Verse 7, we're able to be merciful with others.
And in verse 9, we're peaceable or we're peace makers.
So we're the ones that go about working to initiate peace with one another.
And being in such a large family certainly can't we see the benefit of this.
The more that we're able to integrate these qualities into our dealings with one another,
the happier we're going to be.
And of course, the happier our Bethel family will be as they deal with one another.
Our next concern is our text for today, verse 8.
And here in verse 8, we're helped to examine our motives for serving God.
As our commenters mentioned, being pure and hard has to do with what we are on the inside.
So it's our motives, it's our affections, it's our desires.
And can't we say, aren't we happiest when we know that we're serving Jehovah with a clean conscience
and that everything that we do is motivated by our sincere love and gratitude for Him?
You know, the interesting thing about Jesus' terminal of the mount was that as he spoke
with these large crowds that gathered from all over,
likely the majority of the people in the crowds were happy.
They were probably very excited, they were able to make this journey.
They were thrilled about the possibility of beating Jesus and learning about Him,
but many of them had probably been healed by Him and cured of some sickness and infirmity.
But despite all of that joy and excitement, Jesus was helping them to see that real happiness,
genuine happiness, was more than how they felt or what they were doing at present.
Happiness was not just a joyous occasion, it was more than just a good time with others.
It went much deeper than that.
It involved their contentment, satisfaction, fulfillment, and life.
And all of those things are directly related to one's relationship with God.
That's why if we go back to chapter 6, even if you look in verses 10 and 11,
it's amazing how members of our brotherhood can experience hurt, disappointment, ridicule,
even severe persecution, and yet they're able to remain remarkably happy.
Why?
It's because of their relationship and service to Jehovah.
Now, this sermon on the Mount was not the only time that Jesus focuses on this point.
If we look at another account, if you turn with me please to Luke chapter 11.
And here we'll see another account where Jesus shows the connection between happiness
and one's relationship with Jehovah.
Luke chapter 11, and we'll look at verse 27.
Jesus now, as he was saying these things, a woman from the crowd called out to him,
happy is the wound that carried you and the breasts that nursed you.
But Jewish women desire the privilege of being the mother of a prophet and particularly the Messiah.
So this woman must have thought, what a privilege for Mary.
How happy she must have been to be the mother of Jesus Christ.
And likely she was.
But yet, what did Jesus do?
Notice how he gently corrects the woman and directs her attention as to the true source of happiness.
Verse 28.
But he said, no, rather, happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it.
So again, Jesus emphasizes that true happiness is not found in any physical ties.
It's not found in privileges.
It's not found in accomplishments.
True happiness is found in being a true faithful servant of God.
Because likely Jesus knew if we were to gauge our happiness on any of these other things,
you see, our life becomes one giant rollercoaster of events.
It's basically a bunch of highs and lows and we're just waiting for the next big thing in life to make us happy.
That's a very tough way to live.
It's a stressful way to live.
Well, Jesus and his father, they don't want us to live this way.
How interesting our watchtower for this week really helped to capture this point.
And didn't we learn that we cannot gauge happiness by what we have, by what we do,
even by where we serve?
Because isn't it true?
The reality is there are some things that are just not in our control.
And as our watchtower so nicely highlighted, our circumstances can always change.
And that's going to affect, expand, or limit what we're able to do in Jehovah's service.
If we just go back for a minute to that survey that was taken.
The top answer on the list is to far as what made one happy was family and relationships.
And doesn't that really highlight the disconnect when a person does not view Jehovah as family?
When they don't see him as their heavenly father.
So don't we rejoice in the fact we cherish the fact that actually that Jehovah is our father.
And he's a happy God.
And he wants us to be happy as well.
Jehovah is certainly appreciative of anything that we're able to do in his service
according to our circumstances and our abilities.
And we rejoice in the fact that our faith is strong.
And we are happy genuinely happy.
Why?
Because we have a good relationship with God.
And this is a relationship that allows us to learn about him.
That allows us to be fellow workers with him in our Christian ministry.
And ultimately gives us the tremendous privilege to bear and to carry his name.